#### The 3 dimension of Testing
1. Target: What aspect of application is under Testing 
	1. Code Function
	2. API
	3. User Interface
2. Type of Testing
	1. Performance Testing
	2. Functional Testing
	3. Accessibility
3. Method
	1. Manual
	2. Automation


- Unit Test: Target is '*single function*', type of testing is '*functionality*' and method is '*automation*'
- UI Testing is targeting User interface, type is functional, method is manual/automation
- Integration Testing includes testing few components of target, type is functionality and method is mostly automated.


#### What is Automation
- literal meaning is self-driven with less or no manual intervention.
- Automation always promises to take some specific task off our hands.
- Reduce repeating and enacting steps by rote
- unlock new levels of speed, scale and reliability in testing.

- Humans are still needed to write good test cases
- human are the ultimate judge of the quality of software written for human users.
- manual testing to diminish, probably not disappear
- Automation skills are important, but must be kept update to date, and new technologies explored.




Automation Approaches
1. Record and playback (no-code)
2. Writing Automation code

Though Java is probably the most popular language used with selenium and Appium but can lead to unnecessary complexity and confusion unless you already know it well



#### Different Automation Tool
Few open source automation tools
2. Selenium: Drove the official @3C browser automation standard. Writes tests in any programming language, Architecture well suited for scaling. Focus on real web browsers an real operating systems.
4. [[AutomationTesting/Cypress|Cypress]] : 
5. TestCafe
6. Puppeteer: developed by Google for headless chrome automation. It support headless testing and increase testing speed. Works via the Devtools/remote debug protocol
7. [[Playwright]]: Microsoft version of puppeteer. works on edge and firefox in addition to Chrome. Modifies browser code to translate DevTools protocol. Also support headless execution.
8. RobotFramework:  it is not actually an automation library, rather an umbrella framework. Scripting language, test runner, reporter. Usable by non-programmers, automation handled by Robot Framework "Libraries" like Selenium Library.


#### Mobile Automation Tools
1. [[Appium]]: It is more of philosoplical appraoch than a fundamental automation technology. Applium makes the best automation technology available in a standard way. Applium relies on E
2. XCUITest: #Apple framework for iOS, Written ins Objective-C or Swift run with Xcode. Basic UI Automation preimitives (finding elements, taps, gestures).Appium for iOS support is based on XCUiTest
3. Espresso: Library from #Google, for Android Apps. Tight Integration with Android studios. Test written in java or Kotlin. Gray-box instead of black-box testing model. Cannot test any thing outside the app.
4. UIAutomator: was predecessor of Espresso. now not promoted. Appium's standard android support is powered by UIAutomator.
5. EarlGrey: Developed by #google but for iOS . Provide Gray-box approach provide idle synchronization and app-internal code access. Limited to iOS, using Objective-C
6. Detox: Designed especially for automation of react native apps. It i Nodejs tool and tests are written in #javascript. Wraps EarlGrey for iOS and Espresso for Android. Currently it is supported for simulator and emulators and not real devices.
7. 
